README.md, before:

# Nord.nvim

A port of the popular and simplistic [nord](https://www.nordtheme.com/) colour scheme to neovim. The [`trunk`](https://github.com/kunzaatko/nord.nvim/tree/trunk) branch is an exact clone of the [nord-vim](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim) colourscheme but written in [lush.nvim](https://github.com/rktjmp/lush.nvim).

![nord.nvim](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56647779/117521912-a0188b00-afb0-11eb-857a-7554874c5050.png)

# Customization

The configuration options are set the same way as in the vim version, through vim global variables. Every option that is possible to set in [nord-vim](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim) is included. The defaults are preserved. For previews and full descriptions, see the official [nord vim port configuration website page](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration).

| Option                                                                                                                                    | Default | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [`vim.g.nord_cursor_line_number_background`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#active-cursor-line-number-background) | `0`     | Use the same background on number when `cursorline` enabled  |
| [`vim.g.nord_uniform_status_lines`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#uniform-status-lines)                          | `0`     | Use the same background for all statuslines on split windows |
| [`vim.g.nord_bold_vertical_split_line`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#bold-vertical-split-lines)                 | `0`     | Lighter background for vertical split                        |
| [`vim.g.nord_uniform_diff_background`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#uniform-diff-background)                    | `0`     | Use forground colours in diffs                               |
| [`vim.g.nord_bold`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#bold-style)                                                    | `1`     | Enable bold font                                             |
| [`vim.g.nord_italic`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#italic-style)                                                | `1`     | Enable italic font                                           |
| [`vim.g.nord_italic_comments`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#italic-comments)                                    | `0`     | Use italic font for comments                                 |
| [`vim.g.nord_underline`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#underline-style)                                          | `0`     | Enable underlining                                           |

## Added functionality

Due to the features of `lush.nvim` and the added capabilities from using `lua`, it is possible to load languages and plugin specifications for colours modularly. You can only load the plugin options that you will use. This possibility is added by setting

```lua
-- Languages
vim.g.nord_langs = {'c', 'python', 'yaml'}  -- 'asciidoc', 'awk', 'c', 'cmake', 'cs', 'css', 'dosini', 'dt', 'gitconfig', 'go', 'help', 'html', 'java', 'json', 'less', 'lisp', 'lua', 'markdown', 'perl', 'php', 'pod', 'python', 'ruby', 'rust', 'sass', 'sh', 'sql', 'vim', 'xml', 'yaml'

-- Plugins
vim.g.nord_pkgs = {'gitsigns', 'vim-startify'} -- 'ale', 'coc', 'ctrlp', 'gitsigns', 'haskell-vim', 'jedi-vim', 'nerdtree', 'vim-clap', 'vim-fugitive', 'vim-gitgutter', 'vim-indent-guides', 'vim-javascript', 'vim-markdown', 'vim-plug', 'vim-signature', 'vim-signify', 'vim-startify', 'vimwiki', 'vim-yaml', 'yats'
```

The default behaviour remains the same, that is that all the language support specs and plugins are loaded.

# Tweaking

Since this port is written in [lush.nvim](https://github.com/rktjmp/lush.nvim), you can easily tweak the individual colours. Just open `lua/nord-nvim.lua` and customize the colours using the `lush` colour methods.

For example, if you want to make the background a bit darker

```lua
...
Normal {fg = clrs.nord4, bg = clrs.nord0.darken(10)},
...
```

You can preview the colour groups with the `:Lushify` if the `lush.nvim` plugin is loaded. For more methods and possibilities, look into [`lush.nvim`](https://github.com/rktjmp/lush.nvim) (It is amazing!).

# Installation

## [packer.nvim](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim)

```lua
use {
    'kunzaatko/nord.nvim',
    requires = {'rktjmp/lush.nvim', opt=true},
    config = function()
        vim.cmd("colorscheme nord")
    end,
} -- colorscheme
```

## [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)

```vim
Plug 'kunzaatko/nord.nvim'
colorscheme nord
```

# Plugins

All plugins that are in the [vim port](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim) are included.

# Contribution

This branch is intended to be an _exact copy_ of the [vim port](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim). I will be restrained in adding any additional features or colour definitions. Only adequate alterations from the original should be neovim-exclusive features such as the planned definition of [nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter) colour groups etc.

If you want a customized (not the unofficial) nord theme, switch to the [`colourful`](https://github.com/kunzaatko/nord.nvim/tree/colourful) branch. There you can file issues if you think something could look better and submit PRs for adding plugins etc.

<!-- vim:set et sw=4 ts=4 nowrap: -->

Commit message:

add: README note about the loading time

README.md, after:

# Nord.nvim

A port of the popular and simplistic [nord](https://www.nordtheme.com/) colour scheme to neovim. The [`trunk`](https://github.com/kunzaatko/nord.nvim/tree/trunk) branch is an exact clone of the [nord-vim](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim) colourscheme but written in [lush.nvim](https://github.com/rktjmp/lush.nvim).

![nord.nvim](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56647779/117521912-a0188b00-afb0-11eb-857a-7554874c5050.png)

# Customization

The configuration options are set the same way as in the vim version, through vim global variables. Every option that is possible to set in [nord-vim](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim) is included. The defaults are preserved. For previews and full descriptions, see the official [nord vim port configuration website page](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration).

| Option                                                                                                                                    | Default | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [`vim.g.nord_cursor_line_number_background`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#active-cursor-line-number-background) | `0`     | Use the same background on number when `cursorline` enabled  |
| [`vim.g.nord_uniform_status_lines`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#uniform-status-lines)                          | `0`     | Use the same background for all statuslines on split windows |
| [`vim.g.nord_bold_vertical_split_line`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#bold-vertical-split-lines)                 | `0`     | Lighter background for vertical split                        |
| [`vim.g.nord_uniform_diff_background`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#uniform-diff-background)                    | `0`     | Use forground colours in diffs                               |
| [`vim.g.nord_bold`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#bold-style)                                                    | `1`     | Enable bold font                                             |
| [`vim.g.nord_italic`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#italic-style)                                                | `1`     | Enable italic font                                           |
| [`vim.g.nord_italic_comments`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#italic-comments)                                    | `0`     | Use italic font for comments                                 |
| [`vim.g.nord_underline`](https://www.nordtheme.com/docs/ports/vim/configuration#underline-style)                                          | `0`     | Enable underlining                                           |

## Added functionality

Due to the features of `lush.nvim` and the added capabilities from using `lua`, it is possible to load languages and plugin specifications for colours modularly. You can only load the plugin options that you will use. This possibility is added by setting

```lua
-- Languages
vim.g.nord_langs = {'c', 'python', 'yaml'}  -- 'asciidoc', 'awk', 'c', 'cmake', 'cs', 'css', 'dosini', 'dt', 'gitconfig', 'go', 'help', 'html', 'java', 'json', 'less', 'lisp', 'lua', 'markdown', 'perl', 'php', 'pod', 'python', 'ruby', 'rust', 'sass', 'sh', 'sql', 'vim', 'xml', 'yaml'

-- Plugins
vim.g.nord_pkgs = {'gitsigns', 'vim-startify'} -- 'ale', 'coc', 'ctrlp', 'gitsigns', 'haskell-vim', 'jedi-vim', 'nerdtree', 'vim-clap', 'vim-fugitive', 'vim-gitgutter', 'vim-indent-guides', 'vim-javascript', 'vim-markdown', 'vim-plug', 'vim-signature', 'vim-signify', 'vim-startify', 'vimwiki', 'vim-yaml', 'yats'
```

This may decrease your loading time. It should not be an issue on modern machines, but nevertheless, it makes the loading just a little bit more snappy and you can be sure that nothing you do not care for is slowing you down.

The default behaviour remains the same, that is, that all the language support specs and plugins are loaded.

# Tweaking

Since this port is written in [lush.nvim](https://github.com/rktjmp/lush.nvim), you can easily tweak the individual colours. Just open `lua/nord-nvim.lua` and customize the colours using the `lush` colour methods.

For example, if you want to make the background a bit darker

```lua
...
Normal {fg = clrs.nord4, bg = clrs.nord0.darken(10)},
...
```

You can preview the colour groups with the `:Lushify` if the `lush.nvim` plugin is loaded. For more methods and possibilities, look into [`lush.nvim`](https://github.com/rktjmp/lush.nvim) (It is amazing!).

# Installation

## [packer.nvim](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim)

```lua
use {
    'kunzaatko/nord.nvim',
    requires = {'rktjmp/lush.nvim', opt=true},
    config = function()
        vim.cmd("colorscheme nord")
    end,
} -- colorscheme
```

## [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)

```vim
Plug 'kunzaatko/nord.nvim'
colorscheme nord
```

# Plugins

All plugins that are in the [vim port](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim) are included.

# Contribution

This branch is intended to be an _exact copy_ of the [vim port](https://github.com/arcticicestudio/nord-vim). I will be restrained in adding any additional features or colour definitions. Only adequate alterations from the original should be neovim-exclusive features such as the planned definition of [nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter) colour groups etc.

If you want a customized (not the unofficial) nord theme, switch to the [`colourful`](https://github.com/kunzaatko/nord.nvim/tree/colourful) branch. There you can file issues if you think something could look better and submit PRs for adding plugins etc.

<!-- vim:set et sw=4 ts=4 nowrap: -->
